Welcome to another exam cram.
And in this one we're going to cover Elastic Load Balancing and auto scaling. So getting started with Elastic
Load Balancing.
There are free types of ELB on AWS.
There's the classic load balancer.
Remember this is the oldest one is kind of old generation being deprecated.
It does layer four and layer 7.
You've got the application load balancer which is purely layer seven.
So the application layer, that means HTTP and HTTPS.
And then you got the network load balancer which is layer 4 TCP and that's all about routing
connections based on IP protocol data.
So those TCP port numbers, we've seen this in the course.
So just remember all this information you got to remember that the application load balancer is directing
traffic based on information in HTTP and the network load balancer is operating at the TCP level.
The classic load balancer kind of operates it both but it's not as clever.
It's older generation you can do a lot more with application and network load balancers such as the path-based
routing and the host-based routing, the separate target groups. Key use cases for network load balancer
are going to be when you need ultra high performance, low latency and TLS offloading at scale.
So anything where you see that you really need that sort of TCP high throughput or TLS off loading
at scale some kind of large requirement for a lot of TLS offloading those might push you towards
network load balancer.
Otherwise you're often going to go towards the application load balancer it's going to be very rare if
at all nowadays on the exam that you're ever going to choose
Classic load balancer as the answer.
So when we have load balancers we can have Internet facing that means the notes that ELB nodes have
public high IPs, the traffic is routed to the private IP address of EC2 instances so it doesn't matter
even if those instances are in public subnets and they have public ip addresses it's still going to
use the private IP address of the EC2 instance to route that data. You must have one public subnet
in each availability zone where the ELB is defined and that's the format at the DNS name.
We then have the internal only ELB which have private IPs only and they route traffic also to the
private IP addresses. They have slightly different DNS name.
So remember this is what it looks like where in this case it's a classic load balancer but it really
doesn't matter.
You've got a Internet facing load balancer so that means the nodes have public IPs and route to the
private IPs of the instances in public subnets and we then have a private subnet here.
This means it's a internal only ELB.
And in this case it has private IPs and it also routes to the private IPs and these instances
are going to be in a private subnet so you can register EC2 instances and containers against the ELB
you'll be known to use IP addresses within your subnets.
And the more traffic that you're putting through the ELB the more nodes it's going to put into your
subnets.
You don't see those, they're transparent to you but they do require IP addresses so you've got to make sure
you got at least eight IP addresses in each subnet for the ELB nodes. Remember they use the private
IP address and that's associated with the eth0 adapter and the ELB listener is the process
that listens for connection requests so remember for the CLB that could be TCP could be a port number
a TCP level or it could be port 80 or 443, HTTP and HTTPS.
Whereas the ALB only does the layer seven stuff and the listener for the ALB only does the layer 4
stuff.
So TCP we then have security groups and these control the ports and protocols that reach the front-end
listener.
So that's the ELB security group.
You have to assign a security group for the ports and protocols on the front-end listener.
You also need to allow the ports and protocols for the health-check ports.
So the back-end listeners so that those health checks can succeed for monitoring. By default you'll have
CloudWatch monitoring every one minute.
And with this the ELB service only sends information when requests are active.
So when your ALB is actually being used.
You then have access logs.
Now these are disabled by default but you can include information in here about the clients that are
connecting to your ALB so stuff like the IP address can be identified and you can store and retain these
on S3.
We then have cloudtrail and this is about logging API calls that are made to the ALB and you can store
that information in an S3 bucket.